CHAPTER XXIII.
Thou shalt not raise a false report, put not thine hand with a wicked to be an unrighteous
witness.
Thou shalt not follow a multitude to do evil, neither shalt thou speak in a cause to decline
after many to rest judgment, neither shalt thou countenance a poor man in his cause.
If thou meet thine enemy's ox or his ass going astray, thou shalt surely bring it back
to him again.
If thou see the ass of him that hateth thee lying under his burden, and wouldest forbear
to help him, thou shalt surely help with him.
Thou shalt not rest the judgment of thy poor in his cause.
Keep thee far from a false matter, and the innocent and righteous slay thou not, for
I will not justify the wicked.
And thou shalt take no gift, for the gift blindeth the wise and perverteth the words
of the righteous.
Also thou shalt not oppress a stranger, for ye know the heart of a stranger seeing ye
were strangers in the land of Egypt.
In six years thou shalt sow thy land and shalt gather in the fruits thereof, but the seventh
year thou shalt let it rest and lie still, that the poor of thy people may eat, and what
they leave the beasts of the field shall eat.
In like manner thou shalt deal with thy vineyard and with thy olive-yard.
Six days thou shalt do thy work, and on the seventh day thou shalt rest, that thine ox
and thine ass may rest, and the son of thy handmaid and the stranger may be refreshed.
And in all things that I have said unto you, be circumspect, and make no mention of the
name of other gods, neither let it be heard out of thy mouth.
Three times thou shalt keep a feast unto me in the year.
Thou shalt keep the feast of unleavened bread, thou shalt eat unleavened bread seven days
as I commanded thee in the time appointed of the month Abib, for in it thou camest out
from Egypt, and none shall appear before me empty.
And the feast of harvest, the first fruits of thy labors, which thou hast sown in the
year, when thou hast gathered in thy labors out of the field, three times in the year
all thy males shall appear before the Lord God.
Thou shalt not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leavened bread, neither shall the fat
of my sacrifice remain until the morning.
The first of the first fruits of thy land thou shalt bring into the house of the Lord
thy God.
Thou shalt not see the kid in his mother's milk.
Behold, I send an angel before thee to keep thee in the way, and to bring thee into the
place which I have prepared.
Beware of him, and obey his voice, provoke him not, for he will not pardon your transgressions,
for my name is in him.
But if thou shalt indeed obey his voice, and do all that I speak, then I will be an enemy
unto thine enemies, and an adversary unto thine adversaries.
For mine angel shall go before thee, and bring thee in unto the Amorites, and the Hittites,
and the Perizzites, and the Canaanites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites, and I will
cut them off.
Thou shalt not bow down to their gods, nor serve them, nor do after their works, but
thou shalt utterly overthrow them, and quite break down their images.
And ye shall serve the Lord your God, and he shall bless thy bread and thy water, and
I will take sickness away from the midst of thee.
There shall nothing cast their young nor be barren in thy land the number of thy days
I will fulfill.
I will send my fear before thee, and will destroy all the people to whom thou shalt
come, and I will make all thine enemies turn their backs unto thee.
And I will send hornets before thee, which shall drive out the Hivite, the Canaanite,
and the Hittite from before thee.
I will not drive them out from before thee in one year, lest the land become desolate,
and the beasts of the field multiply against thee.
By little and little I will drive them out from before thee, until thou be increased
and inherit the land.
And I will set thy bounds from the Red Sea, even unto the Sea of the Philistines, and
from the desert unto the river.
For I will deliver the inhabitants of the land into your hand, and thou shalt drive
them out before thee.
Thou shalt make no covenant with them, nor with their gods.
They shall not dwell in thy land, lest they make thee sin against me, for if thou serve
their gods, it will surely be a snare unto thee.
Chapter 24 And he said unto Moses, Come up unto the
Lord, thou and Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, and Seventy, of the elders of Israel, and worship
ye far off.
And Moses alone shall come near the Lord, but they shall not come nigh, neither shall
the people go up with him.
And Moses came and told the people all the words of the Lord, and all the judgments,
and all the people answered with one voice, and said, All the words which the Lord hath
said, will we do.
And Moses wrote all the words of the Lord, and rose up early in the morning, and build
it an altar under the hill, and twelve pillars according to the twelve tribes of Israel.
And he sent young men of the children of Israel, which offered burnt offerings, and sacrificed
peace offerings of oxen unto the Lord.
And Moses took half of the blood, and put it in basins, and half of the blood he sprinkled
on the altar.
And he took the book of the covenant, and read in the audience of the people, and they
said, All that the Lord hath said, will we do, and be obedient.
And Moses took the blood, and sprinkled it on the people, and said, Behold the blood
of the covenant, which the Lord hath made with you concerning all these words.
Then went up Moses and Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel, and they
saw the God of Israel, and there was under his feet, as it were, a paved work of a sapphire
stone, and as it were, the body of heaven in his clearness.
And upon the nobles of the children of Israel he laid not his hand, also they saw God, and
did eat and drink.
And the Lord said unto Moses, Come up to me into the mount, and be there, and I will
give thee tables of stone, and a law and commandments which I have written, that thou mayest teach
them.
And Moses rose up, and his minister Joshua, and Moses went up into the mount of God.
And he said unto the elders, Terry ye here for us, until we come again unto you, and
behold Aaron and her are with you, if any man have any matters to do, let him come unto
them.
And Moses went up into the mount, and a cloud covered the mount.
And the glory of the Lord abode upon Mount Sinai, and the cloud covered it six days,
and the seventh day he called unto Moses out of the midst of the cloud.
And the sight of the glory of the Lord was like devouring fire on the top of the mount
in the eyes of the children of Israel.
And Moses went into the midst of the cloud, and got him up into the mount, and Moses was
in the mount forty days and forty nights.
Chapter 25 And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Speak
unto the children of Israel that they bring me an offering, of every man that giveth it
willingly with his heart he shall take my offering.
And this is the offering which he shall take of them, gold and silver and brass, and blue
and purple and scarlet and fine linen and goat's hair and ram's skins dyed red and badger's
skins and shittim wood, oil for the light, spices for anointing oil and for sweet incense,
onyx stones and stones to be set in the ephod and in the breastplate, and let them make
me a sanctuary that I may dwell among them.
According to all that I show thee, after the pattern of the tabernacle, and the pattern
of all the instruments thereof, even so shall ye make it.
And they shall make an ark of shittim wood, two cubits and a half shall be the length
thereof, and a cubit and a half the breadth thereof, and a cubit and a half the height
thereof.
And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, within and without shalt thou overlay it,
and shalt make upon it a crown of gold round about.
And thou shalt cast four rings of gold for it, and put them in the four corners thereof,
and two rings shall be in the one side of it, and two rings in the other side of it.
And thou shalt make staves of shittim wood, and overlay them with gold.
And thou shalt put the staves into the rings by the sides of the ark that the ark may be
borne with them.
The staves shall be in the rings of the ark, they shall not be taken from it.
And thou shalt put into the ark the testimony which I shall give thee.
And thou shalt make a mercy-seat of pure gold, two cubits and a half shall be the length
thereof, and a cubit and a half the breadth thereof.
And thou shalt make two cherubims of gold, of beaten work, shalt thou make them in the
two ends of the mercy-seat.
And make one cherub on the one end, and the other cherub on the other end, even of the
mercy-seat shall ye make the cherubims on the two ends thereof.
And the cherubims shall stretch forth their wings on high, covering the mercy-seat with
their wings, and their faces shall look one to another, toward the mercy-seat shall the
faces of the cherubims be.
And thou shalt put the mercy-seat above upon the ark, and in the ark thou shalt put the
testimony that I shall give thee.
And there I will meet with thee, and I will commune with thee from above the mercy-seat,
from between the two cherubims which are upon the ark of the testimony of all things which
I will give thee in commandment unto the children of Israel.
Thou shalt also make a table of shittim wood, two cubits shall be the length thereof, and
a cubit the breadth thereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof.
And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, and make thereto a crown of gold round about.
And thou shalt make unto it a border of an hand-breadth round about, and thou shalt make
a golden crown to the border thereof round about.
And thou shalt make for it four rings of gold, and put the rings in the four corners that
are on the four feet thereof.
Over against the border shall the rings be for places of the staves to bear the table.
And thou shalt make the staves of shittim wood, and overlay them with gold that the
table may be borne with them.
And thou shalt make the dishes thereof, and spoons thereof, and covers thereof, and bowls
thereof, to cover with all, of pure gold shalt thou make them.
And thou shalt set upon the table showbread before me all way.
And thou shalt make a candlestick of pure gold, of beaten work shall the candlestick
be made, his shaft and his branches, his bowls, his knops, and his flowers shall be of the
same.
And six branches shall come out of the sides of it, three branches of the candlestick out
of the one side, and three branches of the candlestick out of the other side.
Three bowls made like unto almonds, with a knop and a flower in one branch, and three
bowls made like almonds in the other branch, with a knop and a flower.
So in the six branches that come out of the candlestick.
And in the candlestick shall be four bowls made like unto almonds, with their knops and
their flowers.
And there shall be a knop under two branches of the same, and a knop under two branches
of the same, and a knop under two branches of the same, according to the six branches
that proceed out of the candlestick.
Their knops and their branches shall be of the same.
All it shall be one beaten work of pure gold.
And thou shalt make the seven lamps thereof, and they shall light the lamps thereof, that
they may give light over against it.
And the tongs thereof, and the snuff-dishes thereof, shall be of pure gold.
Of a talent of pure gold shall he make it with all these vessels.
And look that thou maketh them after their pattern which was shewed thee in the mount.
CHAPTER XXVI.
Moreover thou shalt make the tabernacle with ten curtains of fine twined linen, and blue
and purple and scarlet, with cherubims of cunning work shalt thou make them.
The length of one curtain shall be eight and twenty cubits, and the breadth of one curtain
four cubits, and every one of the curtains shall have one measure.
The five curtains shall be coupled together one to another, and other five curtains shall
be coupled one to another.
And thou shalt make loops of blue upon the edge of the one curtain from the selvedge
in the coupling, and likewise shalt thou make in the uttermost edge of another curtain in
the coupling of the second.
Fifty loops shalt thou make in the one curtain, and fifty loops shalt thou make in the edge
of the curtain that is in the coupling of the second, that the loops may take hold one
of another.
And thou shalt make fifty tashes of gold, and couple the curtains together with the
tashes, and it shall be one tabernacle.
And thou shalt make curtains of goat's hair to be a covering upon the tabernacle, eleven
curtains shalt thou make.
The length of one curtain shall be thirty cubits, and the breadth of one curtain four
cubits, and the eleven curtains shall be all of one measure.
And thou shalt couple five curtains by themselves, and six curtains by themselves, and shalt
double the sixth curtain in the forefront of the tabernacle.
And thou shalt make fifty loops on the edge of the one curtain that is outmost in the
coupling, and fifty loops on the edge of the curtain which coupleth the second.
And thou shalt make fifty tashes of brass, and put the tashes into the loops, and couple
the tent together, that it may be one.
And the remnant of that remaineth that the curtains of the tent, the half-curtain that
remaineth, shall hang over the backside of the tabernacle.
And a cubit on the one side, and a cubit on the other side, of that which remaineth in
the length of the curtains of the tent, it shall hang over the sides of the tabernacle,
on this side, and on that side, to cover it.
And thou shalt make a covering for the tent of ram-skins dyed red, and a covering above
of badger's skins.
And thou shalt make boards for the tabernacle of shittim wood standing up.
Ten cubits shall be the length of a board, and a cubit and a half shall be the breadth
of one board.
Two tenons shall there be in one board, set in order one against another, thus shalt thou
make for all the boards of the tabernacle.
And thou shalt make the boards for the tabernacle twenty boards on the south side southward.
And thou shalt make forty sockets of silver under the twenty boards, two sockets under
one board for his two tenons, and two sockets under another board for his two tenons.
And for the second side of the tabernacle, on the north side, there shall be twenty boards.
And there are forty sockets of silver, two sockets under one board, and two sockets under
another board.
And for the sides of the tabernacle westward, thou shalt make six boards.
And two boards shalt thou make for the corners of the tabernacle and the two sides.
And they shall be coupled together beneath, and they shall be coupled together above the
head of it onto one ring, thus shall it be for them both, they shall be for the two corners.
And they shall be eight boards, and their sockets of silver sixteen sockets, two sockets
under one board, and two sockets under another board.
And thou shalt make bars of shittim wood, five for the boards of the one side of the
tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the side of the tabernacle for the two sides
westward.
And the middle bar in the midst of the boards shall reach from end to end.
And thou shalt overlay the boards with gold, and make their rings of gold for places for
the bars, and thou shalt overlay the bars with gold.
And thou shalt rear up the tabernacle according to the fashion thereof which was shewed thee
in the mount.
And thou shalt make a veil of blue and purple and scarlet and fine twined linen of cunning
work with cherubims shall it be made.
And thou shalt hang it upon four pillars of shittim wood overlaid with gold, their hooks
shall be of gold upon the four sockets of silver.
And thou shalt hang up the veil under the tashes that thou mayest bring in thither within
the veil the ark of the testimony, and the veil shall divide unto you between the holy
place and the most holy.
And thou shalt put the mercy seat upon the ark of the testimony in the most holy place.
And thou shalt set the table without the veil and the candlestick over against the table
on the side of the tabernacle toward the south.
And thou shalt put the table on the north side.
And thou shalt make an hanging for the door of the tent of blue and purple and scarlet
and fine twined linen wrought with needlework.
And thou shalt make for the hanging five pillars of shittim wood, and overlay them with gold,
and their hooks shall be of gold.
And thou shalt cast five sockets of brass for them.
CHAPTER XXVII.
And thou shalt make an altar of shittim wood, five cubits long and five cubits broad.
The altar shall be four square, and the height thereof shall be three cubits.
And thou shalt make the horns of it upon the four corners thereof.
His horns shall be of the same, and thou shalt overlay it with brass.
And thou shalt make his pans to receive his ashes, and his shovels, and his basins, and
his flesh-hooks, and his fire-pans, all the vessels thereof thou shalt make of brass.
And thou shalt make for it a great of network of brass, and upon the net shalt thou make
four brazen rings, in the four corners thereof.
And thou shalt put it under the compass of the altar beneath, that the net may be even
to the midst of the altar.
And thou shalt make staves for the altar, staves of shittim wood, and overlay them with
brass.
And the staves shall be put into the rings, and the staves shall be upon the two sides
of the altar, to bear it.
Hollow with boards shalt thou make it.
As it was shewed thee in the mount, so shall they make it.
And thou shalt make the court of the tabernacle, for the south side southward there shall be
hangings for the court of fine twine linen of an hundred cubits long for one side, and
the twenty pillars thereof and their twenty sockets shall be of brass, the hooks of the
pillars and their fillets shall be of silver.
And likewise for the north side in length there shall be hangings of an hundred cubits
long, and his twenty pillars and their twenty sockets of brass, the hooks of the pillars
and their fillets of silver.
And for the breadth of the court on the west side shall be hangings of fifty cubits, their
pillars ten and their sockets ten.
And the breadth of the court on the east side eastward shall be fifty cubits.
The hangings of one side of the gate shall be fifteen cubits, their pillars three and
their sockets three.
And on the other side shall be hangings fifteen cubits, their pillars three and their sockets
three.
And for the gate of the court shall be in hanging of twenty cubits of blue and purple
and scarlet and fine twine linen wrought with needlework, and their pillars shall be four
and their sockets four.
All the pillars round about the court shall be filleted with silver, their hooks shall
be of silver and their sockets of brass.
The length of the court shall be in hundred cubits and the breadth fifty everywhere and
the height five cubits of fine twine linen and their sockets of brass.
All the vessels of the tabernacle and all the service thereof and all the pins thereof
and all the pins of the court shall be of brass.
And thou shalt command the children of Israel that they bring the pure oil olive beaten
for the light, to cause the lamp to burn always.
In the tabernacle of the congregation, without the veil which is before the testimony, Aaron
and his sons shall order it from evening to morning before the Lord.
It shall be a statute for ever unto their generations on the behalf of the children
of Israel.